.. _25102022:

25/October/2022
==============================================


Retrospect
------------------------
- While I was looking for ways to solve one of the problems coming ( how to sync animation and event ) I found that these types of games are actually better done in something called ECS ( Entity Component System ).  While reading it, I was slowly accepting the fact that I had to rewrite big portions of the code. Yea, it didn't feel nice, considering that I came up with the code I had myself. However, I could really see the benefits of the new system and how much easier it will be to code. I after reading some guides, I followed one of the blog posts and its github and wrote the base for the ECS. I have modified it to suit my needs quite a bit, but the implementation still stands.

- Right now, I managed to rewrite most of the functionality I had befire the switch. Honestly, it was not that hard to rewrite it back. Maybe I just knew what I wanted. Also, not everything went to waste. Most of the animation system I had in place didn't change and I could easily reuse it. There are a few things left to bring back from the old style, mainly the event system. This is why the ECS code is still in a separate branch as I still haven't fully reached the state I was in. When that happens, I will merge the branch into master and continue from there again. 

- Ironically, my problem with syncing events and animations still stands, but right now I need to do some code cleanup. This system, while it reduces massively the number of files, is a bit ugly to set up code wise without some infrastructure. I can clearly see I need some factories and all that cool abstraction jazz which I am pretty hyped up for.  

- I really need a project goal list!

TODOs For Next Update
------------------------
- For the love of God, comment the code or explain it somewhere so I can understand it if I forget what was I doing!!!
- Create some code abstractions to better facilitate future development. 
- Log my work better on GitHub with issues
- Separate Action from States 
- Create path finding system (Probably A*). Test it with a mod as well
- Create blocking and sequential animations (animations which must be performed before you can move, have to be done in a specific sequence)
- Make the main character go where the mouse clicks.
